_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: "Short Bio"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---
I am a professor of materials science at the Institute for Condensed Matter Chemistry of Bordeaux (ICMCB, CNRS) and Bordeaux INP in France, which I joined in 2001. Since September 2025, I have been based in Singapore as an **Adjunct Senior Researcher at Nanyang Technological University (NTU)**, within CINTRA, working on AI-guided design of advanced materials. Since 2020, I have also held an **Honor Chair Professorship** at National Tsing Hua University (Taiwan).

My work focuses on **alloy design**, **high-entropy alloys (HEAs)**, and **artificial intelligence for materials science**. I combine physical metallurgy and computational thermodynamics with data-driven approaches to understand and design metallic materials for energy and sustainability.

## Research Focus

I combine expertise in physical metallurgy with computational thermodynamics and modern AI methods to build machine learning workflows – from feature engineering and predictive models to active learning and closed-loop design – that accelerate and rationalise the discovery of new materials.

A central theme of my recent work is the development, analysis and application of **hybrid physics–AI models** for materials design and understanding, with three main directions:

1. **Physics models augmented by AI**  
   Using AI to **accelerate, extend or correct** existing physical models (e.g. thermodynamic and kinetic models), in order to explore larger design spaces and capture complex behaviours that are difficult to treat analytically.

2. **AI models augmented by physics**  
   Embedding **physical constraints and prior knowledge** directly into AI models to improve their **robustness, generalisation and interpretability**, especially in regimes where data are scarce or highly heterogeneous.

3. **Physics-based synthetic data for AI**  
   Exploiting **physics-based models as generators of synthetic data** to complement limited experimental datasets, and building **multi-fidelity frameworks** that combine simulated and experimental data in a controlled way, enabling performant AI models in **data-poor regimes**.

## Applications

These hybrid physics–AI approaches are applied to:

- **HEA catalysts for hydrogen evolution reaction (HER)** – design and optimisation of low-dimensional HEAs for efficient, stable electrocatalysis,    
- **High-temperature and energy materials** – development of alloys for elevated-temperature applications and energy systems (e.g. power generation and turbine blades for propulsion), 
- **Active-learning-guided optimisation of thin-film processes** – using active learning with high-throughput SALD to identify deposition parameters (substrate, thickness, precursors, flows, temperature, etc.) that optimise 3D nanostructured piezoelectric energy harvesters for IoT applications.

## Key Achievements

I am the author or co-author of **120+ papers** in international peer-reviewed journals and have delivered around **50 invited talks** at international conferences and universities. I have coordinated or led numerous **EU-funded, national, and industry-partnered projects**, and in 2018 I received the **Constellium Prize of the French Academy of Sciences** for my contributions to metallurgy.

## Recent Papers & Projects

### 🌱📊 Sustainability-Informed Alloy Design with AI
This line of work is developed in close collaboration with Prof. Matthew R. Barnett (Deakin University, Australia) and focuses on integrating economic, environmental and societal criteria into AI-guided high-entropy alloy design.

As part of my work at the interface of AI, alloy design and sustainability, I develop quantitative indicators, open datasets and decision frameworks to integrate economic, environmental and societal criteria into high-entropy alloy design. The publications below provide a foundation for sustainability-aware, data-driven and AI-guided exploration of HEA composition space.

- S. Gorsse, T. Langlois, and M. R. Barnett,  
  *Considering sustainability when searching for new high entropy alloys*,  
  **Sustainable Materials and Technologies** 40 (2024) e00938.  
  https://doi.org/10.1016/j.susmat.2024.e00938  

- S. Gorsse, T. Langlois, A.-C. Yeh and M. R. Barnett,  
  *Sustainability indicators in high entropy alloy design: an economic, environmental, and societal database*,  
  **Scientific Data** 12 (2025) 288.  
  https://doi.org/10.1038/s41597-025-04568-x  

- S. Gorsse, T. Langlois, and M. R. Barnett,  
  *Sustainability of High Entropy Alloys and Do They Have a Place in a Circular Economy?*,  
  **Metallurgical and Materials Transactions A** (2025).  
  https://doi.org/10.1007/s11661-025-07928-9

### 🚀⚙️ **AI-Driven Design of High-Temperature Structural Alloys**
In this line of work, developed in collaboration with Prof. An-Chou Yeh (National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan), I combine physical metallurgy, CALPHAD-based thermodynamics and physics-informed, AI-driven optimisation to design and assess high-temperature structural alloys, including HEAs and CCAs for turbine blades and other hot-section components.

Commit message:

Enhance sustainability section with new tool and references
Added an open-source tool for sustainability metrics in alloy design and updated publication references.

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: "Short Bio"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---
I am a professor of materials science at the Institute for Condensed Matter Chemistry of Bordeaux (ICMCB, CNRS) and Bordeaux INP in France, which I joined in 2001. Since September 2025, I have been based in Singapore as an **Adjunct Senior Researcher at Nanyang Technological University (NTU)**, within CINTRA, working on AI-guided design of advanced materials. Since 2020, I have also held an **Honor Chair Professorship** at National Tsing Hua University (Taiwan).

My work focuses on **alloy design**, **high-entropy alloys (HEAs)**, and **artificial intelligence for materials science**. I combine physical metallurgy and computational thermodynamics with data-driven approaches to understand and design metallic materials for energy and sustainability.

## Research Focus

I combine expertise in physical metallurgy with computational thermodynamics and modern AI methods to build machine learning workflows – from feature engineering and predictive models to active learning and closed-loop design – that accelerate and rationalise the discovery of new materials.

A central theme of my recent work is the development, analysis and application of **hybrid physics–AI models** for materials design and understanding, with three main directions:

1. **Physics models augmented by AI**  
   Using AI to **accelerate, extend or correct** existing physical models (e.g. thermodynamic and kinetic models), in order to explore larger design spaces and capture complex behaviours that are difficult to treat analytically.

2. **AI models augmented by physics**  
   Embedding **physical constraints and prior knowledge** directly into AI models to improve their **robustness, generalisation and interpretability**, especially in regimes where data are scarce or highly heterogeneous.

3. **Physics-based synthetic data for AI**  
   Exploiting **physics-based models as generators of synthetic data** to complement limited experimental datasets, and building **multi-fidelity frameworks** that combine simulated and experimental data in a controlled way, enabling performant AI models in **data-poor regimes**.

## Applications

These hybrid physics–AI approaches are applied to:

- **HEA catalysts for hydrogen evolution reaction (HER)** – design and optimisation of low-dimensional HEAs for efficient, stable electrocatalysis,    
- **High-temperature and energy materials** – development of alloys for elevated-temperature applications and energy systems (e.g. power generation and turbine blades for propulsion), 
- **Active-learning-guided optimisation of thin-film processes** – using active learning with high-throughput SALD to identify deposition parameters (substrate, thickness, precursors, flows, temperature, etc.) that optimise 3D nanostructured piezoelectric energy harvesters for IoT applications.

## Key Achievements

I am the author or co-author of **120+ papers** in international peer-reviewed journals and have delivered around **50 invited talks** at international conferences and universities. I have coordinated or led numerous **EU-funded, national, and industry-partnered projects**, and in 2018 I received the **Constellium Prize of the French Academy of Sciences** for my contributions to metallurgy.

## Recent Papers & Projects

### 🌱📊 Sustainability-Informed Alloy Design with AI
This line of work is developed in close collaboration with Prof. Matthew R. Barnett (Deakin University, Australia) and focuses on integrating economic, environmental and societal criteria into AI-guided high-entropy alloy design.

As part of my work at the interface of AI, alloy design, and sustainability, I develop quantitative indicators, open datasets, and decision frameworks to integrate economic, environmental and societal criteria into high-entropy alloy design. 
To facilitate the practical application of these metrics, I developed an **open-source tool** designed to integrate sustainability into alloy design. It calculates 9 economic, environmental, and societal footprints, providing a comparative visualization of new alloy formulas versus current state-of-the-art (HEAs/CCAs) and commercial standards.
[![Streamlit App](https://static.streamlit.io/badges/streamlit_badge_black_white.svg)](https://alloy-sustainability-calculator-sg.streamlit.app/)

The publications below provide a foundation for this sustainability-aware, data-driven, and AI-guided exploration of HEA composition space.

- S. Gorsse, T. Langlois, and M. R. Barnett,  
  *Considering sustainability when searching for new high entropy alloys*,  
  **Sustainable Materials and Technologies** 40 (2024) e00938.  
  https://doi.org/10.1016/j.susmat.2024.e00938  

- S. Gorsse, T. Langlois, A.-C. Yeh and M. R. Barnett,  
  *Sustainability indicators in high entropy alloy design: an economic, environmental, and societal database*,  
  **Scientific Data** 12 (2025) 288.  
  https://doi.org/10.1038/s41597-025-04568-x  

- M. R. Barnett and S. Gorsse,  
  *Sustainability of High Entropy Alloys and Do They Have a Place in a Circular Economy?*,  
  **Metallurgical and Materials Transactions A** 56 (2025) 4249.  
  https://doi.org/10.1007/s11661-025-07928-9

### 🚀⚙️ **AI-Driven Design of High-Temperature Structural Alloys**
In this line of work, developed in collaboration with Prof. An-Chou Yeh (National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan), I combine physical metallurgy, CALPHAD-based thermodynamics and physics-informed, AI-driven optimisation to design and assess high-temperature structural alloys, including HEAs and CCAs for turbine blades and other hot-section components.
